[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>BILL MCKENNA: The
technique is that you
enter into a state of gratitude,
a gratitude for everything.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Everything that happens.
>>MCKENNA: In the
fifth dimension,
it is a state where you're
in a state of bliss,
you're in your heart, and there
becomes very little difference
in between you and me.
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Bill McKenna is with us, the
author of "The Only Lesson"
and founder of the
Cognomovement where
he teaches simple, quick
techniques to better
the human experience and reach
into the fourth and fifth
dimensions, Bill, right?
>>MCKENNA: Right.
>>NOORY: And we're going to
talk about these dimensions
and what they are.
How have you been?
>>MCKENNA: Great, great.
Such an honor to be
with you, George.
>>NOORY: Likewise, likewise.
What is Cognomovement?
>>MCKENNA: Cognomovement
is a modality
that I developed that causes
an emotional amnesia or craving
amnesia, these sorts of things
where people no longer feel
the way they feel.
We also use it for many other
purposes to solve, really,
life's most difficult problems.
>>NOORY: Is it spiritual?
Supernatural?
>>MCKENNA: No, no, not at all.
What it is, we have
found a way to exploit
a natural neurological
response that our bodies have.
So we have a person
focus on a problem,
and then we do
particular movements.
And with that, it causes
these problems to go away.
>>NOORY: Give me an example.
>>MCKENNA: Well, let's just say
that you've gotten a divorce
and something's happened
horribly or a death
of somebody--
>>NOORY: Something tragic.
>>MCKENNA: Something tragic.
What happens is,
we have the person
to let them feel how they
feel, feel their resentment,
feel their pain.
>>NOORY: And their
bitterness, whatever it is.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
Feel all of that.
And when they do, we move
their body in a certain ways.
And it causes them to have new
epiphanies, new perspectives,
and a release of it
in the physical body.
They actually feel a
sensation in the body
of this actually leaving.
>>NOORY: They can
feel this change.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: How did you
get started in this?
>>MCKENNA: Well, I started--
>>NOORY: There's story
behind this somehow.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, yeah.
Well, I had no
intention, first of all,
to go on the journey
of creating a modality.
But what happened was,
I went through kind
of a very abrupt
spiritual awakening
back in around 2007 or so.
And with that, I began to study
many different modalities.
When the student is
ready, the master appears.
And that happened to me.
It really-- in spades.
And I started helping people
and figuring out what worked
and what didn't work.
>>NOORY: In the
introduction, I talked
about the fourth dimension,
the fifth dimension.
How many dimensions are there?
>>MCKENNA: I believe there's
unlimited number of dimensions.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, yeah.
But the ones that we're
really concerned with today
are the third, the
fourth, and the fifth
and how we can,
with the information
that we were going
to give today,
find a simple method of actually
being able to bend time itself.
>>NOORY: Wow.
What dimension
does the humankind
seem to be predominantly
residing in?
>>MCKENNA: The predominant
one is the third dimension,
and this dimension
is one where you
have certain type of features
and aspects to it-- facets,
if you will.
In the third dimension,
we are in a constant state
of either wanting something,
not getting what we want,
or we're indifferent.
Predominantly, we find
ourselves in a state
of one of the lower emotions--
shame, guilt. The big one
right now is anxiety,
fear, and anger.
>>NOORY: It's everywhere.
>>MCKENNA: It's everywhere.
It's the predominant
emotion on the planet.
>>NOORY: What are we
looking at here, Bill?
>>MCKENNA: What we're looking at
is my map of awareness levels.
>>NOORY: You created this?
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
And with this,
MOAL, what we have
is divided out into the third,
fourth, and fifth dimensions.
What is it that you can expect
within those dimensions?
Time will behave a certain way.
You'll have a particular
focus in these dimensions.
The different facets
of these dimensions
are explained in this map
of levels of awareness.
And they are affecting
everything from time itself
to our ability to
manifest things.
>>NOORY: I notice
ego was up there.
>>MCKENNA: Yes, our ego.
So in the third dimension,
for example, our ego
either is not getting what
it wants or it's indifferent.
And this is evident
in all of our lives.
Just a simple trip down
the street, and you'll
find yourself either wanting
something from someone
or not getting what you
want as an experience.
>>NOORY: I always
thought ego was good,
but I hear from so many other
people that ego is bad for us.
Who's right?
>>MCKENNA: Well, I don't
think it's a bad thing.
It is your personality.
>>NOORY: It's who you are.
>>MCKENNA: It is who you
are, to a certain extent.
We take on a personality when
we come here to the earth.
And with that, we're going
to learn certain lessons.
>>NOORY: Our very
own Regina Meredith,
she's interviewed you
before on her program.
And she interviewed Jim Self on
the "Conscious Media Network"
to talk about some
of these dimensions.
>>JIM SELF: This thing
called dimensions
is a very interesting aspect.
Let's start with this third
dimension, which I'm saying
is dissolving.
It's going away.
Well, the dimension is not
the chair we're sitting in,
the house that surrounds us,
the tree outside the window.
That's form.
That's physical form.
But what this third dimension
is is a very dense reality,
and it's very structured.
It's conditional.
There's nothing in the third
dimension that's unconditional.
You have to get into
the fourth and fifth
before you experience
unconditional, so conditional.
It's very rigid.
There's not a lot of flexibility
in this third dimension.
It deals in things like always.
She's never going
to be trustworthy.
I can never allow.
He always is going
to be this or that.
See, there's no flexibility
in that very rigid.
There's also a component
in the third dimension that
keeps us very much in
the third dimension,
and that's how we
understand time.
Time is a very
fascinating thing.
Time is an application.
It's not a fixed creation.
So in the third dimension,
the time that we play in
is called past, present,
future, and then you die.
But if you look around and you
listen to people speaking, what
you hear them talking
about is not present time,
but this happened to
me once upon a time
and I hope it never
happens to me again,
or they said if I would,
therefore I will be.
So when you listen to
people, very seldom
do you hear them
speaking in present time
in a third-dimensional reality.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Fascinating.
How do you get through
these dimensions?
Is it voluntary or involuntary?
>>MCKENNA: Well, both.
As a species, we're
moving presently
from the third to
the fourth dimension.
And the way that we
migrate is actually
by processing all of
those unwanted emotions.
>>NOORY: Do we want to be
stuck in the third dimension?
>>MCKENNA: Well, the third
dimension has certain benefits.
And one of those
benefits is time itself.
>>NOORY: Why?
>>MCKENNA: Well, in the
third dimension, here
we have linear time.
There are 60 seconds in a minute
and 60 minutes in an hour.
And with this, what happens
is, we get to change our mind.
We get to experience
things very, very slowly.
I can evaluate with
time how maybe I
want to try on
forgiveness, for example,
or change my perspective.
In the fourth dimension, time
becomes malleable and speeds
up.
And in the fifth dimension,
time is instantaneous creation.
>>NOORY: What exactly
is the fourth dimension?
>>MCKENNA: So in
the third dimension
is the home of conditional love.
As Jim Self was
saying, everything
is conditional-- laws, rules,
regulations, yours, mine.
All the institutions really
thrive in this dimension
because they're all rule based.
Even religions are rule based.
So in the fourth dimension,
it is a migration
to unconditional love.
And when we are in that
state of unconditional love,
then what happens is time, for
example, becomes malleable.
But there are aspects
of unconditional love--
gratitude being one of them.
>>NOORY: Barbara Hand
Clow, just an amazing guest
on all programs, including
Gaia's "Open Minds," talks
about the fourth dimension.
Let's get your reaction to that.
>>BARBARA HAND CLOW:
The fourth dimension
isn't even number number 4.
And then the sixth dimension
isn't eighth dimension.
And so in my system,
the higher guides
are actually coming
from the sixth dimension
and the eighth dimension.
And then just like anything
else, in order to get to us
and to communicate with
us and connect with us,
they have to go through
the fourth dimension.
So what happens is,
beings that are actually
of very high
consciousness are often
will come through and be
described as religious figures.
In other words, you pick up
on something you think is God.
But what we're missing is
the really high frequency
and high fine dimensionality,
a really divine consciousness.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: And do
they have to essentially lower
their frequencies and
their presences to be able
to communicate with us--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>HAND CLOW: They don't.
What happens is, you or I,
we're running the frequency
of the fourth dimension.
So if your consciousness
is really high, then
when a divine being
wants to contact you,
it just moves right
through you and right
through the fourth dimension or
right into the third dimension.
And if you got a really
divine inspiration,
you wouldn't tend to interpret
it as Yahweh or Jehovah.
But millions of
people on the planet,
if they get any kind of
impulse of higher energy,
they would think
that as Jehovah.
>>NOORY: Bill, is there
chronology to these dimensions?
You go through the third.
You go through the fourth.
Are they steps?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, that's
an awesome question.
It is.
They are steps.
>>NOORY: Can you leapfrog?
>>MCKENNA: What happens
is, if you leapfrog,
the things that are on process--
let's say, that I did
not process certain fears
or desires--
what happens is, you'll end
up eventually coming back down
in order to process that.
>>NOORY: What about anxieties?
What dimension would
they be hanging around?
>>MCKENNA: Well, those are going
to be in the third dimension.
And those are the
things that keep us
from being able to do
this technique that I'm
going to show to actually
bend time itself.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Now as you go
through dimensions,
are you getting a
little more perfected?
If you go from three to four,
four to five, five to six,
do you get better at things?
>>MCKENNA: Yes, yes.
There's all kinds of
natural phenomenon
that happens as you go
through the dimensions.
You can expect, when you're
in the third dimension,
to experience a
lot of separation.
You can experience a lot
of difficulty in life.
As you graduate and
move through the aspects
of the fourth dimension--
forgiveness, appreciation,
love, unconditional love--
taking you up through
it, what happens
is, your life gets
better and better.
In certain points,
you will actually
start to release your
judgments and your assumptions.
And with that, genius starts
to emerge quite naturally.
>>NOORY: What gets you
into these dimensions?
How do you do it?
How do I go from three to four?
>>MCKENNA: So I'm going to show
you how to actually do that.
One easy way to do it is to
be in a state of gratitude.
So if you are in a state of
gratitude, all of a sudden,
you can't be in a
state of gratitude
and also in fear
at the same time.
I can't be in a
state of gratitude
and then start judging
you at the same time.
>>NOORY: So gratitude
would be, thanks, Bill.
Thanks for coming on the show.
Well, is that gratitude?
>>MCKENNA: That's it.
That's a form of gratitude.
And you can extend
this to everything.
I'm so grateful that my lungs
are breathing really good right
now.
I'm so grateful that my
digestion is working.
I'm so grateful that
we have electricity
in this building that allows
all the camera people to do
what they need to do.
I'm so grateful for
the Gaia network.
>>NOORY: They're everywhere.
>>MCKENNA: Yes, yeah.
And there are so many things
to be grateful for right here,
right now as we sit here.
>>NOORY: What is manifestation?
>>MCKENNA: So manifesting--
and we're constantly in a state
of doing it--
is whatever you're
wanting or not wanting,
whatever you're feeling
attracts a certain reality.
>>NOORY: Like a magnet.
>>MCKENNA: Like a
magnet, exactly.
>>NOORY: Can you attract bad
things, as well as good things?
>>MCKENNA: We all do.
We all do.
>>NOORY: Well, that's true.
>>MCKENNA: And if you want to
know what you're manifesting,
look at your life.
>>NOORY: How do we
get rid of the bad?
>>MCKENNA: So one way
to get rid of the bad
is to cognomovement,
for example,
to process your subconscious.
So the way it works is,
when we are children,
when we're young children
from the ages of zero to seven
we're in a brainwave
state called theta.
This is the same brainwave
state that we put people
into hypnotized.
>>NOORY: It's a great
age too, by the way.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, isn't it?
>>NOORY: Very formative.
>>MCKENNA: It's exactly that.
It's when you get programmed
because your brainwave state is
in that state where it accepts
whatever it's being told.
And so with this, you
get your belief system.
Our belief system,
our subconscious
expresses itself through the
physical body as a feeling.
And then what
happens is we think
thoughts equal to the
feeling that we're feeling.
With this, we manifest
whatever is in our life.
If you want to know what's
in your subconscious,
look at your reality.
So your question was, how
do we get rid of that?
>>NOORY: How do you eradicate?
>>MCKENNA: How do
you eradicate it?
Well, with
Cognomovement, you allow
yourself to feel that way.
Maybe I feel like money is bad,
or only bad people have money.
Let yourself feel that.
And you do this
process and poof,
you no longer feel that way.
So it's a form of
basically eradicating
these unwanted beliefs
out of the subconscious.
>>NOORY: And that's the
movement from third to fourth?
And that's a good thing?
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
So you can make an active choice
to move to the fourth dimension
by forgiving, appreciating--
>>NOORY: Loving.
>>MCKENNA: --letting
go of your judgments,
letting go of your assumptions.
>>NOORY: And this
happens automatically?
This movement into
the fourth dimension?
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
It'll automatically happen if
we actually automatically move
in between the dimensions.
>>NOORY: What's
between dimensions?
>>MCKENNA: In between
the dimensions,
it's like a gradient.
>>NOORY: Is it like limbo?
>>MCKENNA: No, it's a gradient,
kind of like a rainbow.
It's not snap.
It's not like there's
a definitive line.
>>NOORY: It's not three.
It's not four.
>>MCKENNA: It's in between.
It'll slowly merge in
between three to four
and then back down.
>>NOORY: Is it a state of bliss?
>>MCKENNA: So the fifth
dimension is a state of bliss.
Our attention goes
into different places
with different dimensions.
For example, in the
third dimension,
we're mostly concerned
with money, sex, power.
Those are the three primary you
have an attraction or aversion.
There's some strong
emotion there.
In the fourth dimension,
your attention
starts to go to intuition
and spirituality.
And you can actually
start to notice where
is my attention in my body.
It'll help to be another
indicator of where you're at.
In the fifth dimension where
things manifest instantly,
you're in your heart.
>>NOORY: So it sounds
like the higher you go,
the better off you are.
>>MCKENNA: To a certain extent.
Well, the answer is yes.
The fourth dimension is training
wheels to get into the fifth.
We are letting go of all of
those negative experiences
and feelings that we
had from the third.
You'll find yourself
slipping up.
You may be in a
state of gratitude,
you're doing really good,
and then something happens
and you dip down to the--
>>NOORY: What exactly
is the fifth dimension?
>>MCKENNA: In the
fifth dimension,
what it is is just
another feeling.
It is a state where you're
in a state of bliss,
you're in your heart, and there
becomes very little difference
in between you and me.
We're operating in cooperation
and not competition anymore.
And what I see in
my best interest
is to love you completely.
That's when we get into that
state and we're in our heart
and we're actually feeling it.
What happens is, things
happen very, very quickly,
instantaneously, which sounds
really good until you're
in that bliss state and then
something negative happens
and you react to it and boom,
just like that, it happens.
I had a guy, one of
my students, and he
had a boat, a little boat.
And he went out on the
bay with a Buddhist monk.
And I don't know
what he's doing.
>>NOORY: That's weird.
>>MCKENNA: I know.
I know.
But that was a bunch
of his friends.
He's out on the
water, on the bay,
and they decide, of
all things, oh, we're
going to meditate here.
So he's with this Buddhist monk
on his boat, the little boat,
and they're just meditating for
like an hour, the two of them,
in this bliss state.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MCKENNA: And then, the
hour's up, he gets up,
and he turns the--
he turns the key.
And it [MOTOR SOUND].
The battery--
>>NOORY: It's dead.
>>MCKENNA: The battery's dead.
So he's like--
>>NOORY: They drained it.
>>MCKENNA: Well, he got upset.
He's like, he had just
gotten the boat fixed.
And there he is.
He turns the key again,
and he's angry now.
[MOTOR SOUND] And
[EXPLOSION SOUND] the engine
caught on fire.
>>NOORY: Oh, my God.
>>MCKENNA: Just like that.
And so there's many
stories about when
you're in that state, and then
something negative happens.
>>NOORY: Did he create the
negativity, in your opinion?
>>MCKENNA: It was a reaction.
It was something in him
that wasn't healed yet.
And he just he had a reaction.
He dropped down to the third
dimension and got angry.
And then the material world
will respond directly to it.
>>NOORY: Bill, Matías De Stefano
hosts a program on Gaia called
"Initiation," and he shares his
experiences traveling through
these dimensions.
>>MATIAS DE STEFANO:
When you connect yourself
with a fifth dimension, you
have to feel unconditional love
to understand what love means.
Unconditional is that you are
just aware that your self has
created everything
around, so love is just
the expression that
has created all this.
Dimensions are different ways
of consciousness in which
you observe one reality.
That's why you don't go
to the fifth dimension.
You achieve fifth dimension.
You feel fifth dimension.
So if you don't feel incoherence
from the third dimension, then
unconditional love, it will be
very difficult to understand
the fifth dimension because
in the fifth dimension,
love is just one.
It's not separated by chakras.
So you cannot hate or love.
You just love
everything as it is.
That's why in the
fifth dimension
doesn't exist judgment.
So if you, in your heart,
have a little bit of judgment
for someone or something, so it
will be really difficult to you
to see the fifth dimension.
>>NOORY: If you had to
stay in a dimension,
which one would you choose?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, gosh.
I-- You know what--
>>NOORY: You can't, can you?
>>MCKENNA: Well,
actually you can.
You can make the choice to
stay in whatever dimension
that you want.
>>NOORY: But which one
would it be for you?
>>MCKENNA: For me,
I'm most comfortable
in the high fourth dimension.
And the reason being
is that I have not
mastered every emotion.
In order to be in the fifth
dimension successfully,
you need to master every
emotion because as I think--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MCKENNA: --boom, it creates.
A funny story-- it was
Christmas Eve many years ago,
and when I was there, I called
my wife early in the morning.
I was at work, and I was like,
it's like 9 o'clock or so,
and I was like, hey, I'm
going to pick up our daughter.
>>NOORY: And getting out early.
>>MCKENNA: I'm getting out early
and to pick up our daughter.
We're going to go and choose
your Christmas present.
And so we're going to
go to the mall and--
>>NOORY: You didn't
wait too long, did you?
Christmas Eve.
>>MCKENNA: [LAUGHING]
That's when I shop.
I shop on Christmas Eve.
But I know I got to
get to the mall early.
>>NOORY: Before it closes.
>>MCKENNA: Well, not
only before it closes,
but the malls get so
crowded with the cars--
can't get parking.
>>NOORY: Last minute rushes.
Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, so that's
me, last minute rusher.
So what I do is I'm
on the phone with her.
I said, hey, you know
I'm going to pick her up.
And she's like, no.
And I was like, wait,
what do you mean no?
I've got to wash her hair
before you pick her up.
And I'm like, well,
no, no, no, no.
I need to because the mall
and the cars and the parking
and everything.
And she-- nope, nope, nope.
And I'm like, oh, I'm
starting to get frustrated.
I was like, oh.
I was like, fine.
I'll go have an early lunch,
and then I'll pick her up after.
So I'm there.
I go to a Mexican
restaurant, angry,
eating a burrito to myself.
>>NOORY: That's not good.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
And so I pull up, and
I walk in the door.
And there's my wife, and
she's like, well, you
want to see what you did?
And it was like, what did I do?
And she walks me
into the bathroom,
and we have this little
tub for-- little child tub
that one of those spray
handles that you stick it down
in the tub and turn on.
Well, she stuck it
down in the tub,
turned it on, and left
and forgot about it.
And the tub overflows.
No big deal if it goes
down in the drain.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MCKENNA: But this time, the
nozzle broke off the thing.
And it's like silly--
it's like a silly hose.
>>NOORY: It's just like a snake.
Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: And it flooded
the entire bathroom,
and she couldn't do
the whole shower thing.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MCKENNA: Well,
anyway that was it.
She couldn't take a shower.
I didn't want her
to take a shower.
It wasn't that the
front window broke,
or I got a flat
tire or anything.
It was quite specifically that.
>>NOORY: Whose fault was that?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, that'd be mine.
>>NOORY: It was your fault.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
Yeah, I hadn't mastered
that emotion yet.
So these are opportunities
though to consider
changing your mind.
>>NOORY: What does
gratitude mean to you?
>>MCKENNA: So what
gratitude means to me,
the experience of it,
can be really anything.
But it's not a thought.
But it's obviously a thought--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MCKENNA: But it's
really a feeling.
>>NOORY: It's an emotion.
>>MCKENNA: It's an emotion.
If you can get into a state
of sincerely appreciating
whatever is going on.
>>NOORY: Is it a good
state to be in, Bill?
>>MCKENNA: It's a great state.
And it will help you to
stay in the fourth dimension
where things will
manifest quickly.
And you can even
bend time itself.
>>NOORY: And that is the
fourth dimension, gratitude?
>>MCKENNA: That's
the fourth dimension.
Yes.
>>NOORY: How many emotions are
there in the fourth dimension?
Countless?
>>MCKENNA: Well, whatever
derivative of love.
So there would be many, many--
appreciation, forgiveness,
acceptance, love.
>>NOORY: Gratitude is a
great feeling, by the way.
>>MCKENNA: It is a good feeling.
>>NOORY: To be able
to do that and be
thankful for things and people.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
It is a wonderful
feeling that has
some additional benefits that
most people don't go along
with it.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at Matías again,
who talks about resistance.
>>DE STEFANO: Transcendence
for the universe
has a good way and a
bad way to be released.
The good way is when you realize
that your reality is stuck,
and you start to transform
your reality into another one.
And the bad way
to do that is when
you are stuck in your
reality, but you say no, no, I
don't want to change.
So when you don't
want to change,
the whole vibration of
your body and your reality
start to change you by force
because the main statement
of the universe in the fifth
dimension is evolution.
If you don't change, so the
energy stuck, you get ill
or there is a war.
So war and sickness, illness are
just the final product of you
don't realizing that
you have to change.
So the world makes
you change by force.
>>NOORY: What do you think?
You agree with him?
>>MCKENNA: Absolutely.
And that reality plays
itself out really quick.
If you find yourself like not
wanting to go to a meeting,
all kinds of things will
start to happen, anything
from illness to the car
not working, you name it,
when you're in the
fifth dimension.
>>NOORY: You were going to
give us a technique on how
to get into these dimensions.
You want to do that?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, I'd love to.
So this one's very specifically
is all about bending time.
And the technique
is that you enter
into a state of gratitude,
a gratitude for everything.
>>NOORY: Everything
that happens.
>>MCKENNA: Everything.
Your body, the sun, the
moon, everything else
that is around--
>>NOORY: Your pay
raise, everything.
Right?
>>MCKENNA: Everything.
Everything that you can think
of and keep expanding it
to all the people around you
and the environment around you.
When you do that and you're
in a state of gratitude,
you can set your intention.
Now, for example, with
this particular technique
that I was going
to give you today
is all around bending time.
Now time--
>>NOORY: And when
you say bending time,
what does that mean?
>>MCKENNA: OK, so
what that means--
I'll give you the example
of what happened to me.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MCKENNA: I understood
the third, fourth,
and fifth dimensions.
And one day, I made the same
trip for many, many years
from San Diego to Riverside,
and it was a one hour 45 minute
trip.
>>NOORY: Not bad.
>>MCKENNA: Not bad.
Not bad.
>>NOORY: California
traffic not bad.
>>MCKENNA: Not bad at all.
It was every Saturday.
So I would leave at 8:15
and be there at 10 o'clock.
What happened--
>>NOORY: Clockwork.
>>MCKENNA: Like clockwork
because I put the cruise
control on 70 miles an hour.
So I didn't get no
tickets, and off I went.
So this particular
day, we ended up
getting out of the
house half an hour late.
And then, on top of that,
I didn't have any gas,
so I did stop at
the gas station.
So I've refueled, now
we're about an hour--
I mean, about 40 minutes late.
>>NOORY: Is that important here?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
that's important
because I got on the road,
and I was frustrated.
So I saw myself--
>>NOORY: Tense.
>>MCKENNA: --tense, and
I knew that was fear,
and I knew it was
the third dimension.
And all of a sudden
I thought, well,
if this is the third dimension,
I'll be there at 10:40.
>>NOORY: You'll get there.
>>MCKENNA: I'll get
there at 10:40, though,
which is linear time.
And I thought about the
fourth dimension, which
I knew that time was malleable.
So I said, well, OK,
how do I do that?
How would I get in?
Well, I'll feel gratitude.
And I began to feel gratitude.
I felt gratitude for everything.
And I also ignored the laws.
The laws, rules, and regulations
of the third dimension
is linear time, that
means the clock.
So I completely ignored the
clock, and I set my intention.
I'm going to be there at 9:55.
So what happened is I
just kept in the state
of gratitude the entire
way, all the way up there.
And I remember I
turned on the blinker,
and I'm pulling into
the driveway 9:55.
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>MCKENNA: That's 45
minutes that there's
no way to account for it.
>>NOORY: No.
It's like you were
abducted or something.
>>MCKENNA: Yes, yes.
That's another place that time
really shifts is in abductions.
But the technique here to
enter into the fourth dimension
is simply that.
All you have to
do is put yourself
in a state of gratitude,
forget the laws
of the third
dimension-- the clock,
set your clear intention, and
do not look at that law again.
>>NOORY: How do you know, Bill,
that you're in that dimension?
>>MCKENNA: When oddball
things start happening
like what we just talked about.
But the other thing that you'll
know you're in that dimension
is how you feel.
You have to ask
yourself, how do I--
>>NOORY: And you should
feel good, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
If I really feel good
is my mind looping
on thoughts of aggravation,
of fear, of anxiety?
>>NOORY: Would you say you and
I are in the fourth dimension
right now?
>>MCKENNA: I'd say so.
I'd say so.
I feel real good.
>>NOORY: And if you go to
five or six, then what?
>>MCKENNA: Well,
what happens then
is that everything
begins to morph,
so the experience is odd
meaning that in those higher
fifth dimension, you'll
see a person's body
start to dissipate.
And--
>>NOORY: Like the Star Trek.
>>MCKENNA: Kind of like that.
>>NOORY: Beam you up.
>>MCKENNA: Yes, it'll
actually start doing that.
And it's quite a
strange experience.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
been in a dimension
that you didn't want to be in?
>>MCKENNA: So there was,
obviously, the dream state.
There is something
called the lower fourth--
>>NOORY: The lower astral plane.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, the
astral plane, and--
>>NOORY: I've heard about that.
>>MCKENNA: --where
you have the--
it's basically the
unmanifested fears of mankind.
>>NOORY: The undesirables.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
the undesirable.
All of those negative
thoughts, negative experiences
collect there,
and you can easily
end up there in a dream state.
However, it's quite easy to set
your intention not to go there.
If you find yourself
repetitively
having nightmares and stuff,
you can say, you know what?
I'd like to dream
on maybe the fifth
or the sixth or the seventh.
>>NOORY: Bill, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MCKENNA: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: What a wonderful idea--
traveling through
different dimensions,
but the higher you get,
the better off you are.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."